welcome welcome to this week's edition
of Workshop Wednesday we are thrilled to
have you and as you guys know every
Wednesday at 10: a.m. Pacific time we
are here week after week to share
detailed interactive and Hands-On
workshops we always have an amazing
assass expert to walk us through the
content and then kick off with an
interactive discussion so today we are
thrilled to have CAD shasan CMO of light
speed Commerce with us caddy is a saster
Super Fan so we are thrilled to have her
she's appeared on the stages with us
quite a few times we were talking about
it just before we went live I think
cat's first saster she was on stage was
in
2017 we are so excited to have been able
to follow her journey throughout the SAS
World these last few years and for her
to always come back and share so many
amazing insights with us she has a very
impressive marketing career spanning
across B Toc and B2B Technologies with
Dropbox allette clavo and now light
speed Commerce thank you so much Taylor
I really appreciate it and I'm so
excited to be here I've seen the whole
life cycle evolution of company so I'm
more than happy to come here and share
all of those those learnings with the
people awesome cat you have a great
crowd already we have folks from all
over North America Southern California
Vancouver Boston we have someone joining
us from South Africa um so welcome
everyone um really thrilled to see so
many folks from all over so CAD um I'll
pass it over to you to take it away
thank you so much Taylor thank you so
much for taking the time to to come to
this presentation I hope I hope it's it
gives you the value you need so let me
just start by talking about my
background for a second because I think
it's important to to set the context for
what I'm talking about so I've had the
the great Fortune to be associated with
some really amazing companies some of
them are really world renowned some of
them are extremely Mission oriented and
each of these as you can see in the last
few years every one of them has had an
opportunity to have an exit from the
period of their growth so I've seen
literally every stage of company at this
point from series a all the way down to
a public company so I've seen the how
companies evolve and how different kind
of pro companies take different paths to
where they want to get to and it's been
a fascinating experience so when I
joined robox it was a late Stage Company
we went public in 2018 when I joined
Outlet we were a CDC company and we
exited through Spa in 2021 and then
clavio was the most recent one join when
I joined we were a pretty late late
stage compan and then we we ended up the
company ended up going public in 2023 so
all I'm trying to say here is really
just a an interesting experience in
terms of tracking the the growth of
companies and right now I'm with a
company called light speed Commerce we
are a POS and payments software provider
and we are a publicly traded company we
listed both in the Toronto Stock
Exchange and NYSC and we're close to a
billion dollars in Revenue so so you can
imagine like the scale and the
complexity of something like this is
vastly different from a $10 million
series a type of a company and
interesting thing is as I've gone
through my career I've seen both of
these two vectors if you will of there
I've been in companies that have been
exceedingly high growth 300% growth and
I've been at companies where the scale
has been massive so it's been
interesting to see the way companies
either diverge in that respect or they
bring it together as it happened in the
case of clavio where you have scale and
growth and move forward so I want to
share some of those learnings what
happened in those companies that drove
them to that success how did they do it
particularly from a marketing lens but
you can also think of it as a kind of a
broader go to market how does it how do
I take this to inform my go to go to
market strategy so I want to share that
those learning some of those learnings
with you I think starting at the very
basic principle right marketing is never
going to be a static function although a
lot of I speak to a lot of Founders and
what I hear from them is I categorize
marketing into three buckets Performance
Marketing product marketing and brand
marketing which of those levels do I
need to activate at what point in my
life cycle of company it's not that
simple even though the basic principles
are there it's all about how do I find
the right set of tactics the right kind
of strategy for the right stage of a
company in their growth stage and all
companies don't grow in the same way
remember every company has its own
unique path and so the metaphor I think
about is how do I fit marketing into the
right stage of company right kind of
growth of the company as the company
evolves and that's what I want to share
some of those things so let's start with
the first one every marketing strategy
has to be extremely tightly aligned to
what I call the product maturity curve
and what this means is when you are a
single Product Company you have a
certain footprint in terms of products
but if you are a growth oriented Product
Company you're obviously creating more
and more products and you're creating a
platform right and so marketing can
never stay the same the marketing
strategy can never be I'm just going to
keep selling this one little thing and
then hope that we upsell all of these
other pieces marketing strategy has to
evolve as you think about the product
maturity curve and so where that means
is what that means is what is the best
uncontested Market space and what does
it take to capture it and so let me talk
about what that means because this is an
important point when you start anything
right when you start thinking about a
product and how to take it to Market
you're always thinking about what is my
ICP what is the set of customers that
understand that almost intuitively
understand what I'm trying to give them
and how do I make sure that they just
get to know that I exist right that's
your first and biggest challenge is I
have a bunch of dieh hard fans that I
know that will love my product I don't
need to sell them too much all I need to
do is get my word out to them and that's
your uncont Market space at that point
right but as you start to grow what
happens is then you need you start
reaching the limits of what that ICP
represents so you might have started
with a very Niche place and then you
start to think oh wait this adjacent
audience is also likely going to be
interested but they might not fully
understand the value of my product or
they might the product might not be
fully relevant to what they're thinking
about so I call this the ICP plus so
these people are the ones that need to
be educated on what the platform can
give them they're not thinking about you
and making the connection between wait
this feature means this benefit they're
not making that direct connection you
have to make that connection but as you
become a multi-product company a multi
call it a mult multi you know Services
type of a company you expand into
different product areas you different
expand into different revenue streams
you will tap that market out and so the
next one is thinking about what are the
what I would call the late majority
customers so if you think about ICP and
ICP plus they're still your early adop
late adopters right in the crossing the
chasm type of a curve and then you hit
the point of late majority where these
are people who are generally very
adverse to switching they don't want to
take the risk of switching they have way
too many switching cost they're
comfortable where they are they don't
have a sense of foro about it they're
fine and this is where you need to
really think about how do I create this
sense of urgency how do I create the
sense of fomo how do I create the hook
and how do I even get in front of them
and really sell them the value of this
and in some cases you're just nurturing
them to a point where it's then they
realize oh something has changed
and now I have to switch so the first
Focus area for marketing in my opinion
in my experience has always been this
early and late adopters because you can
really get a lot of value you can get a
lot of momentum out of this and then
once you reach momentum and you hit a
certain Tipping Point in terms of market
share then it starts to go into it
starts to create a machine of its own
viral machine so if you start with that
idea that you are really tied at the hip
with how you're thinking about the
product maturity curve and your customer
base then the second aspect of it
becomes okay when you start to scale up
it's not as simple as thinking only
thinking about how you think about
audiences in the previous Pro tip I
talked there was only one vector of
complexity which was the audiences which
is this one the audiences and the
product the product becomes more
relevant audience increase how do you
create the growth but the reality to be
honest is that lots of things change as
we grow and there are multiple levels of
growth vectors of growth you could go
after different audiences you could have
different products either you buy
different products or you create their
them or you even integrate with certain
ecosystem Partners to expand your
footprint you go into different
Industries all of these things and then
the personas is important especially if
you're an Enterprise software you have
likely seen this already there is no
single Persona in your buying Journey if
you're a self-served company that's
appealing to smbs it's one thing because
you're you generally have the budget
owner who is also the decision maker so
it's easy but when you go into
Enterprise you have a budget owner you
have an influencer you have a decision
maker you have a potentially a finance
person who needs to sign off so you have
multiple personas and all of a sudden
now you're confronted with what does my
marketing strategy need to look like for
this an Enterprise audience who has this
kind of a who's in this sort of a risk
stage who's looking at this vertical etc
etc and then the last Vector of growth
that creates complexity is the go to
market how you create a go to market
motion can make or break your growth
cycle if you get into a self- serve
motion too early but you're an
Enterprise focused company that match
doesn't happen if you are an Enterprise
focused software but you're trying to do
everything through field motion for
instance that motion doesn't work so you
got to you suddenly start to think about
what is my go to market motion here
where do I invest and that creates
complexity as well and so the biggest qu
problem that I see is in the Quest for
taking quick decisions and moving fast
which is the DNA of all good startups
people tend to simplif oversimplify this
complexity and what I would suggest
instead is asking these five questions
instead of oversimplifying or looking at
these five and saying I'm just going to
pick one of these and optimize the hell
out of this think about these five
questions what is the big Insight that
drives Inc so if I'm appealing if I'm a
software that's appealing to a a
financial controller in a big Enterprise
what's the one big thing that is driving
urgency on their part what is the
problem statement that you are trying to
be known to solve what is the what is
basically the job to be done right the
second thing I would love for everyone
to think about is what is the new
category you want to dominate why do
customers care is it a an existing
category is it a subcategory is it
something completely new that we haven't
defined for the market yet that we want
to go and create so being very
deliberate about the new category
becomes important and then the third one
is the this I cannot understate how
important this third question is which
is where do I play versus not play what
are the the you know the things that I
will absolutely not do I will not do
self- serve because it is not relevant
to me or I won't build an a whole field
motion or
sorry outbound motion because I am going
to be a selfelf focused business where
do I not want to play and then how do I
want to win it could be that I want to
win primarily through a partner
ecosystem a really robust ecosystem of
Integrations that could be your clear
how to win or in in some of these
companies who have gone to amazing
successes have said I'm just going to
focus on inbound marketing as my big
level so how do you want to win and then
what are the current growth levels that
can scale this is another super
important thing there every growth level
is going to hit a point of
diminishing returns right and in the
beginning you can get growth but not
profitability and it looks very
attractive but what are the things that
can continue to scale so don't
oversimplify complexity think about
these five questions and then once you
really put some effort Behind These the
answer starts to get clearer about which
of these levels of complexity you want
to try to optimize for so the next one
is like leading into one of those
bubbles that you saw in the previous
slide I'm calling it know your motion
but I what people don't fully realize is
there are multiple ways to go to market
right so uh plg is a very well-known
thing Bottoms Up self- sered product Le
growth and for those who are not
familiar with this is basically the idea
that your product is so intuitive and so
user friendly that people sign in they
selfs serve their way into signing up
for a premium experience and or they
continue to sign up to add-ons and
features and they basically use the
product on their own a very minimal
human intervention and of course if you
look at some of the biggest
successes in the world in SAS like a
slack and Dropbox and CIO most of them
were made it so easy for customers to to
get onto the platform and use the
platform that it became truly self-
serve so we call it product Le growth
product light growth also has a bunch of
different other elements such as how do
you create the right experience growth
hacking all kinds of different things so
the thing that is important here to know
is this requires a real real focus on
product and analytics and growth minded
either marketers or product focused
people who can take this have a vision
and make it happen then there on the
other side of the spectrum you have
sales Le growth which is basically the
idea that you are having a bunch of
touch points human touch points and I
think that's also fairly obvious now the
interesting part is that you can create
hybrid motions the plg and SLG motion
one example we had at Dropbox was this
thing called self- serve sales assist
which was basically people would self-
serve but their needs were a bit more
complex so at that point we would offer
them a way to chat with with a human and
or get in touch with a human requested
demo and then that human would convert
the sale all of this is saying at
different parts in your company's life
cycle different motions become relevant
and so the most important thing is to
make sure that you are really focused on
understanding what is relevant to your
audience at what point and where do you
think you can scale and focusing on that
I won't touch on this I think we can
skip because I've walked through this
but the knowledge of how you can play
around with each of these is going to be
important as well but also keep in mind
too some of these are much larger
Investments particularly on the let's
say the sales Le go to market motion
you're talking about High Hing people
commission planning all that kind of
stuff so there's a cost to each of these
and the important thing is to recognize
where do you want to scale sorry where
do you want to grow what do you want to
be known for where is the growth going
to come from and how much is it going to
cost and is that balance going to work
the the next one is so this it's an
interesting one because last a couple of
weeks ago I spoke to a couple of
Founders amazing business and they but
they're sub $500,000 in in ARR and they
said we want to start building out the
brand right away what do we need to do
should we invest more in brand So my
answer to that was no and here's why I
think about brand building in two
elements one is there is a top- down
brand building approach which is
basically you're saying I don't care
what the market sorry I don't really
want to know I don't really want to
segment the market I just want to go and
raise broad awareness in a specific area
let's call it a geographic San Francisco
barria I want to go increase the
awareness in that San Francisco barria
and I I know based on some historicals
or whatever there's only a small
percentage of people who will actually
come through the funnel and become my
closed ones but I'm okay with that
because what I want to do is lift the
Baseline aided and uned recall in that
market very quickly and over with the
with a bunch of investment this works
for some people again it works for
companies who are looking to establish
themselves in a market very quickly and
very with a with Max impact and who also
want a Halo effect coming out of that
kind of investment in a market because
once you get a spike you you have a Halo
that sort of keeps going on for a little
bit what where it doesn't work is
companies that are scra Scrappy small
marketing budgets and who are looking to
establish a foothold in a very Niche
area to begin with and these are this is
where the bottom up approach to building
a brand comes in which is basically
saying I'm going to go figure out what
who are who's my my audience this set of
let's call it accountings I don't know
why I'm calling thinking about
accounting today but let's say
accounting professionals that I really
just want to go and increase my
awareness and so I go to trade shows I
go to associations and whatnot get in
front of them it's a very targeted
approach to building a brand that
requires more more investment in
understanding the ICP more in really
selling the value proposition of the
product and also it it means that you
get much more deliberate about your
product so my the advice I gave to my
Founders there was focus on thing like
designing the brand in the way you want
it think about the brand identity the
visual identity the verbal identity the
aesthetic and how you want to come off
but when it comes to building the brand
then take the approach of doing it
Market by market Audience by audience
versus the top down because that is the
most sustainable way to build the brand
so as you go through this journey keep
in mind there's the top down and the
bottom up and super important no which
uh life cycle you in okay the other
consideration here is we are seeing a
lot more m&a right now and we probably
will continue to see this and for
company that are thinking about how to
acquire and integrate there is a in my
opinion the there is a most the most
optimal way to go from being a house of
Brands which is basically saying I'm
I've acquired this and I'm this going
from a house of Brands to a branded
house which is one specific umbrella is
this idea of a Endor brand and then
converting that to a sub brand and then
finally talking about a branded house I
know we're running short on time so I'm
going to skip this and I'll have more of
what this means from a positioning and
category creation on my LinkedIn at some
point if you're interested follow me
there the next one is one one of the
growth tips that is frequently
underleveraged in my opinion is the
ecosystem the idea of an ecosystem is
you have the right Partnerships and you
have the right set of people who are
creating new value for you and for your
customers but it's the experience I've
had is if you don't do this right it's
becomes a runaway train you are you have
a bunch of who are tell talking about
you in potentially the wrong ways you're
starting to become price competitive and
that's not never a good place to be and
so what I have here is a quick framework
super simple framework to think about
how do you maximize the idea of building
an system obviously like you have to
reach new audiences in terms of
Partnerships for me the it's a very
clear distinction between how do you go
acquire new partners or do you enable
the ones that you have and there's some
elements of how you create the right
connections have the right stories have
the right branding have the right
Communications to do all that stuff so
I'm going to skip through this and get
you a little bit more of the soft skill
part of how marketing evolves as you
think about a company if you are a
marketing leader then you know that your
job is actually not just in marketing
you're actually trying to bring a lot of
different people in the company together
so you are people have used the idea of
a quarterback I people have used the
idea of this connector and so that
that's the Fairly obvious part about
this but I think what's important is how
do you do it becomes important it's not
just the force of your personality that
needs to bring these groups together
it's what I call Red threads what is a
red thread a red thread is the set of
unifying principles attributes or
whatever you want to call it that gets
teams aligned behind the work that
you're doing behind the messaging so it
could be that your a couple of your red
threads are we are a business that
serves complexity we are a business that
serves that is a market leader in X
create the red threads that resonate
across all these departments and use
that to drive the agenda forward for the
company in terms of what you want to be
known for because what you want to be
known for is not just a marketing
objective it's a company objective
product has to show up in the right way
Finance has to show up in the right way
sales has to say the things that you
believe the company stands for customer
success has to have the same voice in
how you interact with people so this
idea of a red threads which I've used in
the past becomes very important to get
people aligned this one is a bit more
practical every single company that I
have been at the the first job I've had
to do is has been to figure out how to
reduce the marketing budget and increase
efficiency there's a lot of detail
behind this in terms of the ongoing
experimentation that you need in my
opinion some of our partners like Google
and meta have been a really good
partners in terms of helping understand
the the ways to create more more
optimization etc etc but I just want to
focus on three things that I've seen
over and over that don't generally
happen within companies and these are
things that we can control one is the
with all of the latest generative AI
stuff there is so much we can do with AI
to drive to drive optimization campaign
optimization so please leverage this as
much as possible lean on your partners
especially if you're spending money with
Google and meta LinkedIn because there's
a ton of things that we can that
can be done here the second thing that
I've seen that doesn't happen which is
very surprising is if you're a sales L
organization these handoff meetings
handoffs need to happen very crisply
cleanly and regularly between sales and
Market and generally this is like a once
in a month people get together and talk
about the pipeline but no actually you
know what the daily or even twice a day
type of a Cadence works wonders when
you're trying to cut costs and become
more efficient and then constant
creative testing the number of times
I've seen content and design not working
well with the performance growth team is
unbelievable this always needs to be top
of mind for any marketing leader who's
coming in fresh this is the probably one
of the most important kind of slides in
this presentation is marketing has to
continuously evolve how we position the
company and the product this is a
framework that I this is not mine I
adopted it a while ago the idea is that
there are only three types of companies
in the world there's product focused
companies customer focused companies and
what's what is called concept focused
company so if you think about customer
the example that frequently people give
is in it in is a very customer focused
company in that they really look at
audiences and designed for audiences a
concept compan is like a Tesla or an
apple where the founder has a vision and
an idea and a concept and it gets built
and then there's a whole bunch of
product focused companies so you go
through the assessment in the diagnostic
of what kind of company are you and
based on that we start to create the
positioning around what do we want to be
what do we want to be known for my
company is this type of a company I'm a
product focused company we are in
category which we where we provide this
kind of a solution to these kind of
people and these are the benefits we
offer and they care about it because of
this reason the cultural context I would
actually also add this idea that when we
talk about the value proposition we also
need to always think about the reasons
to believe so we always want to be
saying this is why you should believe in
me I've shown 30% growth in in
efficiency for your competitors so this
is why I can do it for you always
keeping Ane eye on these five things and
making sure your positioning is always
updated is a very good idea because as
if the company is innovating rapidly the
positioning needs to stay in Pace with
the Innovation or else it goes out of
act all right the last couple of bits
one thing I talk about quite often is as
you grow the marketing team and I've
seen I've done this mistake in the past
is either hiring too many generalists
people who going do a lot or hiring too
many specialists but putting them inside
where they don't come together and work
together so the important takeaway here
is depending on where you are in the
evolution of the marketing team think
about the capabilities you want to you
want to have in the team what kind of
headcount and then the what is the
unifying framework what kind of goals
roles and responsibilities and culture
even going be I know we are talking
about marketing as the as a thing here
but even going Beyond marketing what
I've done with sales and other goto
Market groups is also exactly this which
is what is the balance of Specialists
and generalists and if you bring in
generalists how do you get them to
become ey shaped and if you bring in
Specialists how do you get them to
become t-shaped right that's that that's
the the way to think about this and the
last one this is actually a favorite of
mine is the this idea that are you a map
maker or a market Creator a map maker in
my opinion and there's no right or wrong
by the way both of these lead to success
but as a company and this is not just
marketing as a company are we charting
we know what the map is we know we have
a certain amount of share we want to
increase the share we know where we
going and we just have to go get that
share or are we in a completely
uncontested new category new space we
don't even know how to define what we
have customers don't know how to define
our solution and in that case it's about
becoming a market Creator right if
anyone is a gamer here if you remember
back to the Zinga days they created a
market right but if you contrast that
with electonic Arts where I worked we
had a very clear path to Market
leadership and we followed it so there's
no right or wrong it really depends on
where you're in the stage of your
company growth so are you a mapmaker or
a market Creator and become becoming
extremely clear particularly with your
Founders and your the executive team at
a company with a board on what are the
what's your persona and what are the
moves you want to make and that's
basically brings me to the final which
is when you think about when you are
going in front of an customer keep in
mind that there are basically only two
things right there's people who are
aware of a problem and they're motivated
to solve it which is your ready access
and then there are the people who are
aware of your brand or your product
which is the informed access you're
ready and informed bucket is generally
what shows up in your funnel but then
you have the opportunity here of are you
going after the people who know your pro
who know their problem and are motivated
to solve it but don't know your product
which is all about branding or are you
going after the people who know your
product but don't know that you can
solve it which is all about positioning
and that will guide your decision on
where you want to focus your efforts as
a company and that's it and three things
to remember product maturity curve
determines your marketing strategy know
your brand make sure it shows up in all
touch points your motion go to market
motion is super important that forms the
basis of your growth expansion and with
that I think I I believe I'm done if I
do share a lot of these these tips on my
link LinkedIn so if anyone's interested
please follow me and I'll try to take
this and start to give more context
behind each of these tips as well thank
you so much CAD um for a great
presentation and for all your insights
thanks to everyone for joining we did
get quite a few questions for the slides
so as always slides are going to be
available right after the session
probably later today on um
slideshare.net
saster and the recording will also be
available on YouTube immediately after
we wrap make sure that you're subscribed
to both those channels to check
everything out cadd thanks so much for
joining us and then we are back next
week for another edition of Workshop
Wednesday thank you so much Taylor
thanks everyone for joining in thanks
see everyone next week